# MarriageAndDivorce
Database design for marriage and divorce which covers complicated case like country based polygamy and same sex marriage etc.
# Introduction: 
Marriage and Divorce are two crucial decisions which gain special attention in our society. Marriage is socially or ritually recognized a union between two persons and their family. The definition of marriage varies over cultures and region but it is a principally an agreement between two partners for their sexual relationship, long terms decisions like having children’s and establish themselves socially. In some cultures, marriage is compulsory before pursuing a sexual activity or living together. But the significance of marriage differs region to region, in most of the Asian countries, marriage is cultural symbol and individuals may marriage for social, financial, emotional, religious and spiritual purposes but at the same time, western countries, they don’t have these kinds of boundaries. It totally depends on their mutual willingness. In some countries arranged marriage, child marriage, polygamy, forced marriage is practiced as a cultural tradition and some allow the same-sex marriage also. Statistics are very surprising 58 country allows polygamy for all individuals and 7 countries recognize polygamy only for Muslims. In the 21st century because of broader human rights movements, Gay marriage is legally right in 20 countries. There is no mutual agreement between countries for marriage age, so marriage age is also varying country to country and religion to religion. Divorce or dissolution of marriage is the process of termination of a legal union of two people or cancelling all the legal duties and responsibilities for individuals or their dependents. This termination is the legal process of dissolving the matrimony rights under the civil court law of any country or state. Divorce law varies according to the states and country but in most of the countries, divorce requires sanction from the court or other authority in a legal process which may involve child custody, distribution of property, parenting time etc. Some country allows divorce only in condition both former partners marry to another person and there are few countries do not allow divorce. 

# Conclusion:  
All Tables follows normalization constraints of 1 NF, 2 NF, 3 NF and BCNF. 
Design covers all the constraints which is required for person marriage and divorce database. This database design support polygamy same sex marriage based on religion or country. 
Person marriage record, divorce record, death record are stored in separate table because in real word person marriage, divorce, death are maintained by separate department and having unique id for all three. All the constraint is checked by triggers before or after inserting the record in marriage, divorce, and death table. 
Check constraint is not working in MySQL database, so in this case trigger is only better way which is suggested in MySQL database, on update cascade will not update child table, so child or parent table is updated by trigger, after insertion of every record. 
All marriage and divorced cases is covered, the database has limitation, person can marry in any divorce in any country. Religion based polygamy is not considered in this database. 
Universal marriage divorce database is difficult to implement but I tried to cover most of the scenario, like polygamy, monogamy, same sex marriage but the only difficulty is that we don’t have universal unique id for validation, In my case, I consider passport and nationality combination as unique key but every person don’t have passport, in this case this is limitation in the real word scenario. 
